# What is Bitcoin?

Bitcoin is a new kind of currency. USD is for United States Dollar, EUR is for
the Euro, and BTC is for Bitcoin. Those other currencies are called Fiat
Currencies and they are created by governments. Bitcoin was created in 2009 by
an anonymous internet user known only as Satoshi Nakamoto.

Satoshi released a document called "Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash
System" to a small internet mailing list of cryptography experts. Soon after that
he published the first Bitcoin code. A few people decided to run it and bitcoin
has grown into a global financial network run completely by software and unable
to be controlled by governments.

Bitcoin is software that anyone can download and run to join the network. There
are many types of software that people can choose to run and each serves a
purpose in making Bitcoin work.

Today, you can buy bitcoin, and send it to anyone in the world, instantly,
secretly, and with a less than 1% fee.

Bitcoin is very new technology. It can be tricky to use and requires some
technical know-how. Most places don't accept Bitcoin either. But every year, it
gets easier to use and more business choose to accept bitcoin.

Lucky for you, Bitcoin is very easy to own.

You can hold BTC for years without doing a thing. Then one day you might decide
to use it. By then, it will be easier to use and it might even be more valuable.

Bitcoin has a price. In 2009 Bitcoin didn't have a price. It was just an
experiment then. In **\_** someone started selling Bitcoin on a currency exchange.
That allowed anyone to buy and sell bitcoin for other currencies. Since then, the
price of a Bitcoin has been determined entirely by supply and demand. The price
of Bitcoin is a reflection of how much people demand it.

Bitcoin's price is volatile. This is because its supply is scarce and also
because it's so new. The rate at which new bitcoins are being created is slowing
down. This is by design. Eventually, there will be no new bitcoins created and
we'll all have to use what's already in circulation. Bitcoin's total supply is
fixed at 21 million coins.

However, you can buy a fraction of a Bitcoin. In fact, a single Bitcoin can be
divided into 100 million units. The smallest unit of a bitcoin is called a sat
(short for Satoshi).

At first people used to price things BTC. For example, someone famously spent
10,000 BTC for a pizza. However as the price of Bitcoin continued to rise, it
started to make less and less sense to price things in BTC. Today a pizza would
cost **\_\_** BTC or **\_** SATS. It's easier to price small purchases in SATS.

Terminology:

BTC is the ticker symbol
Bitcoin with a capital "B" refers to the network -- all the computers and code
that makes Bitcoin work.
bitcoin with a lowercase "b" refers to the currency. E.x. I received some bitcoin
from my friend Tom.
