# The Importance of Open Source

Bitcoin is open source software. People choose to run bitcoin software on their
computers and every piece of that software is free to use, modify and redistribute.
Furthermore, anyone can contribute by writing their own code to make bitcoin work
better for everyone.

The opposite of open source is closed source. Closed source software is proprietary
and is usually distributed under a license agreement that restricts modification,
copying and redistributing the code. The code that makes up closed sourced software
is usually kept secret. Users can only access the binaries and have no access to
the source code.

Closed source software is usually created by individuals or companies that profit
from selling licenses to use the code that they created.

Open source software is usually created by individuals or organizations that
release their software for free sometimes finding profit in other ways (like charging 
for customer support).

Open source software has been incredibly important to the rapid growth of the
internet since the 1980's. Most of the computers that make up "the cloud" are
running an open source operating system called linux <source needed>. There are
open source web servers, open source web frameworks, open source web browsers,
open source photo editors, and, thanks to bitcoin, open source money.

Open source software is more secure than closed sourced. A closed source project
may only have a handful of people that work on it and understand the code in its
entirety. This leaves lots of room for bugs, glitches, and security holes to go
unnoticed. Furthermore, once a bug has been found, its up to the company to decide
if if should even be fixed. A lot of the time, companies would rather ignore a
security problem and hope that no one else finds it, than dedicate time and
resources to fix it.

An open source project, however, may have thousands of eyes looking at its source
code on a regular basis. This makes it really hard for bugs, and vulnerabilities
to hide. Once they're discovered, someone can fix it right away and get their fix
merged with the rest of the code very quickly.

As we become increasingly reliant on the internet to communicate, conduct business,
seek information, and shop for goods and services, the need for open source
alternatives becomes more important than ever.

The internet we use today is built with open source tools but the services on it
are mostly closed sourced. Google keeps their search algorithm a secret, Twitter
and Facebook are run by corporations that need to make money from their services.

As Americans, our right to free speech is being slowly eroded. YouTube is forced to
moderate speech because they have to remain friendly to advertisers. Twitter is
policing speech in an effort to make people feel safer on the platform. Google
promotes some ideas above others in its search rankings. These companies have the
right to do this because they are private institutions moderating their proprietary
platform.

However, for many people, most of their public communication happens on these
platforms. For this reason, open source alternatives are incredibly important to
protect our rights.
